let's now bring in Abdullah Al Aran he's
an associate professor of history at
Georgetown University here in Qatar and
so attacks against humanitarian workers
their premises their assets violate
international law how worrying is it
that we continue to see this happen well
I mean this is the result of um being
able to do this for 11 months with
complete and total impunity there has
been absolutely no accountability for
the many many many similar attacks um
even the sense of of even needing a
justification right I mean if again we'
become so desensitized to this level of
of atrocity um against schools against
hospitals Etc that we forget the fact
that this actually going back to the
very beginning um was something that was
deemed completely off limits uh the
Israeli forces at one point would have
to make arguments in cases and talk
about the reasoning behind targeting
these facilities all of that has now
been done away with to the point where
it's become so uh routine to be able to
do this is sh taken place during the
course of this 11mon war would you say
yeah absolutely I mean I think because
the way that this war has unfolded the
way that the genocidal campaign has
unfolded is one in which Israel
continues to test the limits of what's
acceptable internationally and as long
as there has been absolutely no
accountability no intervention
externally from any uh actors of course
led by the United Nations itself which
sees itself constantly targeted in this
way um but also of course all of the
various countries that have continued to
Shield Israel from any accountability um
that as a result it continues to
escalate its just to be clear that the
legal the international framework exists
to enforce accountability UN member
states are meant to protect humanitarian
workers um and I think this is called
for in UN resolution 2730 which was
adopted earlier this year so they can
hold perpetrators to account for
violations if if the willingness is
there exactly I think you touched on it
right there at the end that we know what
the law states the law is very very
extremely clear about this issue but but
the law is only as strong as the
political will that exists to defend it
to apply it to enforce it and we haven't
seen any enforcement mechanisms
whatsoever coming again out of the
United Nations the security Council
which of course is the body that would
necessarily have to take action the
United States has used its veto multiple
times to Shield Israel from any
actionable uh resolutions um and on top
of that of course all of the regional
actors that that continue to basically
sit and watch um as we talk about you
know ceasefire deals and negotiations
that have led nowhere that have simply
acted as as a kind of a distraction from
um you know what's actually unfolding in
Gaza do you think it's it's also quite
sad and unfortunate the lack of
attention that local humanitarian
workers get because we do see
occasionally this kind of international
condemnation when International staff
are targeted as we saw with the world
Central Kitchen staff in April but you
know most of the aid workers that are
leaving their homes if they have homes
still in Gaza every day going to help
their their fellow Palestinians they are
National staff and they don't get
anything like that kind of attention
that's exactly right I mean the the
complete and utter dehumanization of
Palestinians in particular has been very
much a part and parcel of this entire uh
War I mean this is exactly how genocidal
campaigns unfold it starts with
stripping uh the people who are being um
you know massacred exterminated in large
numbers to this degree we're talking
about tens of thousands if not likely
hundreds of thousands of casualties over
the last 11 months and irrespective of
whether they work for an international
agency like the UN um have SE or if
they're journalists for instance another
protected category or medical workers or
or people across so many different uh
sectors that are crucial to the survival
of Palestinians during this exact moment
and they're the ones that are being
targeted most directly um quite often in
in these uh
attacks Israel's B has turned Gaza into
the deadliest place in the world to
deliver Aid because hospitals ambulances
schools shelters convoys all these bits
of Civilian infrastructure have been
targeted and
destroyed do you you envisage a time
where perhaps there will be no
International presence or very little
International presence in Gaza to help
the people there well I I think one
really important element to this that
that should be highlighted is the fact
that we know even predating this last
year that uh the state of Israel along
with even segments of supporters within
the United States have targeted unwa
specifically as an agency as a body that
they deem to be um you know essentially
standing in the way of their AIMS in in
Palestine and so there have been
attempts to defund it to delegitimize it
to criminalize it and even to the extent
that we're seeing its workers targeted
and killed in this way and so I think
the idea that that essentially
attempting to revoke the status of
Palestinians as refugees let's also
consider the fact that than two-thirds
of Palestinians living in Gaza are
either refugees survivors of the NBA or
their descendants right so this is a
agency that has been absolutely crucial
not just to this daily survival of
Palestinians but also to the idea that
they retain the right to return to their
homes right this is something that's
been enshrined in international law and
un resolutions and of course part of
this campaign has been both Again by the
by uh Israel as well as as um within
some segments of the United States to
try and and eventually undo uh
Palestinian claims to their own
nationhood okay thank you very much
Professor Abdullah Al Aran thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer